[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Let's talk a little
bit about Frames per Second, or FPS.
>> Rachel Nabors: So frame rate on the
computer is definitely not the same as it
is in the movie theater.
For instance, in the movie theater
the optimal frame rate to maintain this
illusion of life is 24 frames per second.
Whereas on our computer we keep hearing
people throwing around things like 60
frames per second.
How can those numbers be so disparate?
How can movie theaters get away
with 24 frames per second, and
we have to go out there and
refresh the screen 60 frames per second?
It's ridiculous, right?
Well that's because some photography has
this lovely thing called motion blurs.
You'll notice that each one of
those 24 frames has this rather,
when someone's moving really quickly,
has this smear of action showing
an area where something is moving.
The human eye actually sees
motion areas like this.
It's hard for
me to describe how the human eye works,
because we tend to think
of it as like a camera.
And while it is taking in
data like a camera is,
it is not processed in a photo
realistic way in our brains.
It is used to create mental
models that we experience.
Our mental model of what we're
experiencing cannot be distilled down
to 60 or 200 frames per second.
It becomes areas of motion or
areas of change
that look a lot more like this if I
had to visually represent them to you.
Doing my best here without having to
bring up a whole like I'm going to
take the place of [LAUGH].
We're going to do like a Nova
special where I'll be like,
hi I'm Rachel Neighbors, and today we're
going to go on a magical experience where
we're going to learn how your human
visual system processes information.
We're not doing that today.
So, I will just show you with words and
pictures as best as I can and
not do any mind blowing.
So there is this lovely,
this is done in Animation too, and
this might be copyrighted material so
the videos might have this blanked out.
But if you go to
animationsmears.tumblr.com,
you can see some examples of
how this is done in animation.
For instance this is
from Totally Spies and
you can see that this is a single
frame from Totally Spies and
you can see how our hands are moving
all around in this one frame.
It makes it look like it's happening
really fast when you're playing these at
24 frames per second.
And the human eye is
totally taken in by this,
cuz that's a lot like how
it's processing images.
>> Rachel Nabors: So,
>> Rachel Nabors: [COUGH] More
than anything,
consistency is the more important thing.
It doesn't matter if you're
hitting 60 frames per second for
some of your animations if others of
them fall down to 30 frames per second.
The human eye will notice
that inconsistency and
it will pay attention to it.
It's not like you're cool so long as
you most of the times hit this goal.
If you're not gonna make 60 frames
per second, you should aim for
30 frames per second and stick to that.
You might wanna add some motion blurs.
I did see a really cute game once made for
Firefox OS, where they had added
motion blurs to all the sprites.
And they had capped
the frame rate to 30 frames per second,
using requestAnimationFrame.
And it played very smoothly,
because, a lot like a movie,
each one of those limited numbers of
frames had a large area of motion.
So the eye was able to interpret it.
When we move things really fast across
the screen, say at 60 frames per second,
what we're hoping is that we'll move
them fast enough that the eye won't
be able to depict an individual
picture standing alone.
You may have noticed earlier,
when i was trying to show the ball
rolling across the screen, there was,
if you look closely, there was
a time where it almost looked janky.
Where it was like here was the ball,
and then the ball was here, and
then it was here, it was moving really
fast from one section to the other.
When you move things over large distances
really quickly, say 60 frames per second,
it's gotta move from this side
of the wall to that side of
the wall in 300 milliseconds.
You're probably going to have great big
gaps of white in between those frames,
as it races to the other side,
there's no blur there.
And this is where that 60 frames per
second goal starts breaking down
in large displays and yes.
So, it's important to remember if you're
moving something across a large space,
for instance, you've got a really big
display outdoors at a Cinemaplex or
something, you might need to manually add
motion blurs to your images to make sure
that it doesn't come across janky.
60 frames per second doesn't look that
great if you've got a few frames and
thousands of pixels to go.
>> Rachel Nabors: Also I do
wanna point out one other thing.
You may have noticed that
VR is coming into vogue and
everyone is talking
about VR in the browser.
Well, it's also come to be apparent
that we need to be hitting 90 frames
per second for those experiences to
feel realistic and performent and
non-janky, it's really,
really apparent in the VR head space.
60 frames per second is sort of like this
arbitrary hardware/development limit that
was set there because it was
good enough for screens and
why bother making it more efficient.
Now we're seeing browser developers
scramble to start hitting
90 frames per second marks.
So if you think 60 frames
per second is good enough,
because it mimics the human eye,
it doesn't.
It doesn't mimic the human eye,
motion blurs are closer to that.
60 frames per second is just a nice
benchmark we try to get to to make
ourselves feel better,
but it is not the be all,
end all solution to your performance woes.
It's all about context and consistency.
So, that said, we can still have a look at
the frames per second at any given time
using Chrome's Dev Tools.
The instructions are on this slide.
They may change in the future, because
Dev Tools tend to move things around.
But this frames per second meter tends
to be in the same place every time.
Rather than read the instructions to you,
I'm gonna show you how to do it.
And I'm gonna show you using my site, cuz
how else would you want to investigate.
It's really good too,
cuz every time I get to check this out,
I get to see how my performance is doing
with the latest browser iteration.
So, we've got our Dev Tools open,
we used Cmd or Ctrl + Alt + I.
Now we're gonna hit Esc to
bring up the Console [SOUND].
Now in the Console, what are we gonna do?
[SOUND] Rendering, there we go.
We use the three little dots, if you don't
already see it when a Rendering tab open,
use the three little dots and
look for the Rendering tab.
You grab it and you're gonna check
this box next to Show FPS meter.
And boom, we get this lovely little meter
up here which is showing us how many
frames per second we have going.
You might say, Rachel it's showing your
site's happening at ten frames per second,
that's so bad.
I should remind you that right now
that spinner is only happening at ten
frames per second.
It's very slow animation.
It's not trying to run
at 60 frames per second,
it is literally only changing
the screen 10 times a second.
So that's why it looks so low.
Watch what happens when I start scrolling.
You'll see that the 60 frames,
we start going much higher.
We start seeing averages
up around like 50 and 60,
that's how many times the screen
is being repainted per second
as I'm engaging in this
native scrolling animation.
Now let's see what happens when I
start playing with my side bar.
>> Rachel Nabors: [SOUND] Let's
watch what happens to that meter.
Whoosh, whoosh, whoosh,
very nice, also sound effects.
So that can be kind of a nice way
to just see what's happening,
but it's not very conclusive.
And it should also be mentioned that
these are browser Dev Tools, and
that the very act of observing something's
performance often has a performance cost.
So keep that in mind as we
go forward with these tools.
They are not always the best
way to test for performance.
Sometimes you just have to run
JavaScript in the background
that actually checks this sort of thing.
Let's try using this in
some wonderful new places.
Here's a little animation
I did way back in the day.
There is music for this,
it's really cool music, but
we're not gonna listen to it today,
because it's so
cool that it is distracting and
I want you to pay attention.
So you gonna hit play, and
the music will start here.
You can totally listen to this on your
own, but for now let's open it up
and go to the Rendering tab,
show the frames per second meter.
Let's watch what happens, cuz it's
gonna start moving really fast soon,
there's a beat drop in here.
It's going 60 frames per second right now,
this looks really good on
my tricked out MacBook Pro.
Just a couple of changes and
then the change is gonna come.
There it goes, it's going much faster now.
And you might be noticing that up in
the frames per second meter every once in
a while it starts, yeah,
that's not very smooth.
Now it's trying to move
everything much faster.
Things are starting to get a little janky.
These are all background
position animations by the way.
I did not make these using transforms.
They ran a lot better back in the day.
They don't run so great now.
[SOUND] alright, alright,
I'm gonna move over into Keynote.
It's also fun to go to sites like CSS
Awards and go to some of their favorite
this won an award type sites, and
check those out with the dev tools.
I enjoy doing that.